# SMS
STUDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM USING PYTHON:<br> 
    Student Management System (SMS) is a solution tool that is designed to track, maintain and manage all the data generated by a School.SMS acts as the bottom line database to store all the day-to-day school operations, maintain the proper records of the past few decades, regulate the various operation modules, managing the critical tasks, efficiently handling the administrative processes.
    
PROBLEM STATEMENT:<br>
    The present system involves manual entry of the student information in pen and paper which causes lot of difficulties to the faculties. And there is a possibility that these  records  may  go  missing  or  get  destroyed  when  any  accident  happens. Moreover  it’s  difficult  for  students  to  coordinate  with  the  faculties  in  these pandemic period. And there occurs a problem when you need to search for a record because the records are large in numbers and the of chances of errors are maximum in  manual  mode.    Another  problem  is  the  security  and  it  is  limited  to  physical controls.  So we need an upgrade from the manual system to  computerized system which keeps record of the Student information easily.

TECHNOLOGY USED:<br>
 	The Student Management System uses technologies like Php, Python, MySQL to provide real-time data insights and automate time-consuming tasks. In this Project, I have used the Python Language with Database using Visual Studio Code Tool. It manages all the information about Student Details. All the fields such as Student Roll.No, Name, Email, Contact etc.,are validated and does not take invalid values. The admins can easily search the data of the student, even they can add, delete, update, search and export the data easily. 
